CURRICULAR_GUIDELINES.md, before:

# Computer Science - Curricular Resources

## Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology

ABET, incorporated as the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology, Inc., is a non-governmental organization that accredits post-secondary education programs in applied and natural science, computing, engineering and engineering technology. As of October 2017, 3,852 programs are accredited, distributed over 776 universities and colleges in 31 countries. ABET is the recognized U.S. accreditor of college and university programs in applied and natural science, computing, engineering and engineering technology.

[Program Criteria for Computer Science, Information Systems, and Information Technology Programs](http://www.abet.org/accreditation/accreditation-criteria/criteria-for-accrediting-computing-programs-2019-2020/#2)

## The Association for Computing Machinery

The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) is an international learned society for computing. It was founded in 1947, and is the world's largest scientific and educational computing society. The ACM is a non-profit professional membership group, with more than 100,000 members as of 2011.

### with

## Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) is a professional association formed in 1963 from the amalgamation of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the Institute of Radio Engineers. As of 2018, it is the world's largest association of technical professionals with more than 423,000 members in over 160 countries around the world. Its objectives are the educational and technical advancement of electrical and electronic engineering, telecommunications, computer engineering and allied disciplines.

[Curriculum Guidelines for Undergraduate Programs in Computer Science](https://www.acm.org/binaries/content/assets/education/cs2013_web_final.pdf)

[Curriculum Guidelines for Undergraduate Degree Programs in Software Engineering](https://www.acm.org/binaries/content/assets/education/se2014.pdf)

[Computer Engineering Curricula](https://www.acm.org/binaries/content/assets/education/ce2016-final-report.pdf)

Commit message:

Clarify that CS2013 is the curricular guidance for OSSU
Resolves #679

CURRICULAR_GUIDELINES.md, after:

# Curricular Guidelines

[Curriculum Guidelines for Undergraduate Programs in Computer Science](https://www.acm.org/binaries/content/assets/education/cs2013_web_final.pdf)

Our curricular guidelines are from the 2013 report of the Association for Computing Machinery and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. This report is the most recent in a series of such reports outlining the expectations of undergraduate degrees in Computer Science. The report outlines critical Knowledge Areas and topics within them. It drills down further to outline specific learning goals, going so far as to outline what concepts a student must be able to explain vs concepts a student must be able to demonstrate using in practice. 

## Organizations publishing:

### The Association for Computing Machinery

The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) is an international learned society for computing. It was founded in 1947, and is the world's largest scientific and educational computing society. The ACM is a non-profit professional membership group, with more than 100,000 members as of 2011.

### Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) is a professional association formed in 1963 from the amalgamation of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the Institute of Radio Engineers. As of 2018, it is the world's largest association of technical professionals with more than 423,000 members in over 160 countries around the world. Its objectives are the educational and technical advancement of electrical and electronic engineering, telecommunications, computer engineering and allied disciplines.
