PROJECTS.md, before:

# Projects
> Here, we are providing a list curated by the community of exercises and projects to practice and reinforce the skills we try to master.

Projects created by OSSU's students for each course of our [**Computer Science**](https://github.com/ossu/computer-science) curriculum.

For more project ideas, check the [Mega Project List](https://github.com/karan/Projects).

- [Introduction to Computer Science](#introduction-to-computer-science)
- [Programming](#programming)
- [Math](#math)
- [Systems](#systems)
- [Theory](#theory)
- [Applications](#applications)

## Introduction to Computer Science
Project Title | Description | Author(s) | Repository
:-- | :-- | :--: | :--
Binary Machine | Convert decimal numbers to binary | [Eric Douglas](https://github.com/ericdouglas) | [binary-machine](https://github.com/ericdouglas/binary-machine)
StalkHub | Stalk Github beautifully | [Aman Roy](https://github.com/aman-roy) | [StalkHub](https://github.com/aman-roy/StalkHub)


## Programming
Project Title | Description | Author(s) | Repository
:-- | :-- | :--: | :--

## Math
Project Title | Description | Author(s) | Repository
:-- | :-- | :--: | :--

## Systems
Project Title | Description | Author(s) | Repository
:-- | :-- | :--: | :--

## Theory
Project Title | Description | Author(s) | Repository
:-- | :-- | :--: | :--

## Application
Project Title | Description | Author(s) | Repository
:-- | :-- | :--: | :--

Commit message:

PROJECTS: Add Webliza project (#477)
Introduction to Computer Science section

PROJECTS.md, after:

# Projects
> Here, we are providing a list curated by the community of exercises and projects to practice and reinforce the skills we try to master.

Projects created by OSSU's students for each course of our [**Computer Science**](https://github.com/ossu/computer-science) curriculum.

For more project ideas, check the [Mega Project List](https://github.com/karan/Projects).

- [Introduction to Computer Science](#introduction-to-computer-science)
- [Programming](#programming)
- [Math](#math)
- [Systems](#systems)
- [Theory](#theory)
- [Applications](#applications)

## Introduction to Computer Science
Project Title | Description | Author(s) | Repository
:-- | :-- | :--: | :--
Binary Machine | Convert decimal numbers to binary | [Eric Douglas](https://github.com/ericdouglas) | [binary-machine](https://github.com/ericdouglas/binary-machine)
StalkHub | Stalk Github beautifully | [Aman Roy](https://github.com/aman-roy) | [StalkHub](https://github.com/aman-roy/StalkHub)
Webliza | ELIZA in python with web interface | [Vipin Kumar](https://github.com/VipinindKumar) | [Webliza](https://github.com/VipinindKumar/Webliza)


## Programming
Project Title | Description | Author(s) | Repository
:-- | :-- | :--: | :--

## Math
Project Title | Description | Author(s) | Repository
:-- | :-- | :--: | :--

## Systems
Project Title | Description | Author(s) | Repository
:-- | :-- | :--: | :--

## Theory
Project Title | Description | Author(s) | Repository
:-- | :-- | :--: | :--

## Application
Project Title | Description | Author(s) | Repository
:-- | :-- | :--: | :--
