README.md, before:


![open source society university](http://i.imgur.com/h8xjrrj.png)

### Open Source Society University

:mortar_board: **Path to a free self-taught graduation in Computer Science!**

## Contents

- [About](#about)
- [Becoming an OSS student](#becoming-an-oss-student)
- [Curriculum](#curriculum)
- [How to use this guide](#how-to-use-this-guide)
- [Prerequisite](#prerequisite)
- [How to collaborate](#how-to-collaborate)
- [Community](#community)
- [Next Goals](#next-goals)
- [References](#references)

## About

This is a **solid path** for those of you who want to complete a Computer Science course on your own time, **for free**, with courses from the **best universities** in the World.

In the future, more categories and/or courses will be added to this list or a more advanced/specialized list.

Initially, we will also give preference to MOOC (Massive Open Online Course) type of courses because those courses were created with our style of learning in mind.

## Becoming an OSS student

To officially register for this course you must create a profile in our [students profile](https://github.com/open-source-society/computer-science-and-engineering/issues/31) issue.

> **"How can I do this?"**

Comment in [this](https://github.com/open-source-society/computer-science-and-engineering/issues/31) issue  (please, do **not** open a new one) using the following template:

```
- **Name**: YOUR NAME
- **GitHub**: [@your_username]()
- **Twitter**: [@your_username]()
- **Linkedin**: [link]()
- **Website**: [yourblog.com]()

## Completed Courses

**Name of the Section**

Course|Files
:--|:--:
Course Name| [link]()
```

**IMPORTANT**: add your profile **only once** and **after** you **finish** each course you can **return** to that issue and **update** your comment.

**ps**: In the *Completed Courses* section, you should link the repository that contains the files that you created in the respective course.

> **"Why should I do this?"**

By making a [public commitment](http://renewablewealth.com/articles/the-power-of-a-public-commitment/), we have a greater chance of **successfully** graduating, a way to get to know our peers better, and an opportunity to share the things that we have done.

That is why we are using this strategy.

---

## Curriculum

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Program Design](#program-design)
- [Algorithms](#algorithms)
- [Programming Paradigms](#programming-paradigms)
- [Software Testing](#software-testing)
- [Math](#math)
- [Software Architecture](#software-architecture)
- [Software Engineering](#software-engineering)
- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Computer Networks](#computer-networks)
- [Databases](#databases)
- [Cloud Computing](#cloud-computing)
- [Cryptography](#cryptography)
- [Compilers](#compilers)
- [UX Design](#ux-design)
- [Artificial Intelligence](#artificial-intelligence)
- [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
- [Natural Language Processing](#natural-language-processing)
- [Big Data](#big-data)
- [Data Mining](#data-mining)

---

### Introduction

Course|
:--|
[Introduction to Computer Science](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x#!)| 9 ~ 15 weeks
[Introduction to Computer Science and Programming Using Python](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-mitx-6-00-1x-5#!)| 9 weeks
[Introduction to Computational Thinking and Data Science](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computational-thinking-data-mitx-6-00-2x-2#!)| 10 weeks

### Program Design

Course|
:--|
[Systematic Program Design- Part 1: The Core Method](https://www.edx.org/course/systematic-program-design-part-1-core-ubcx-spd1x-0)| 5 weeks
[Systematic Program Design- Part 2: Arbitrary Sized Data](https://www.edx.org/course/systematic-program-design-part-2-ubcx-spd2x)| 5 weeks
[Systematic Program Design- Part 3: Abstraction, Search and Graphs](https://www.edx.org/course/systematic-program-design-part-3-ubcx-spd3x)| 5 weeks

### Algorithms

Course|
:--|
[Algorithms, Part I](https://www.coursera.org/course/algs4partI)| 6 weeks
[Algorithms, Part II](https://www.coursera.org/course/algs4partII)| 6 weeks
[Analysis of Algorithms](https://www.coursera.org/course/aofa)| 6 weeks

### Programming Paradigms

Course|
:--|
[Introduction to Functional Programming](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-functional-programming-delftx-fp101x-0#ct-read-review-widget)| 7 weeks
[Object Oriented Programming in Java](https://www.coursera.org/learn/object-oriented-java) | 6 weeks
[Principles of Reactive Programming](https://www.coursera.org/course/reactive)| 7 weeks
[Programming Languages](https://www.coursera.org/course/proglang)| 8-16 hours/week
[Functional Programming Principles in Scala](https://www.coursera.org/course/progfun)| 7 weeks

### Software Testing

Course|
:--|
[Software Testing](https://www.udacity.com/course/software-testing--cs258)| 4 weeks
[Software Debugging](https://www.udacity.com/course/software-debugging--cs259)| 8 weeks

### Math

Course|
:--|
[Effective Thinking Through Mathematics](https://www.edx.org/course/effective-thinking-through-mathematics-utaustinx-ut-9-01x)| 9 weeks
[Applications of Linear Algebra Part 1](https://www.edx.org/course/applications-linear-algebra-part-1-davidsonx-d003x-1#ct-read-review-widget)| 5 weeks
[Applications of Linear Algebra Part 2](https://www.edx.org/course/applications-linear-algebra-part-2-davidsonx-d003x-2)| 4 weeks
[Linear and Discrete Optimization](https://www.coursera.org/course/linearopt)| 3-6 hours/week
[Probabilistic Graphical Models](https://www.coursera.org/course/pgm)| 11 weeks
[Game Theory](https://www.coursera.org/course/gametheory)| 9 weeks

### Software Architecture

Course|
:--|
[Web Application Architectures](https://www.coursera.org/course/webapplications)| 6-9 hours/week
[Software Architecture & Design](https://www.udacity.com/course/software-architecture-design--ud821)| -
[Microservice Architectures TODO]()| -

### Software Engineering

Course|
:--|
[Engineering Software as a Service (SaaS), Part 1](https://www.edx.org/course/engineering-software-service-saas-part-1-uc-berkeleyx-cs169-1x)| 9 weeks
[Engineering Software as a Service (Saas), Part 2](https://www.edx.org/course/engineering-software-service-saas-part-2-uc-berkeleyx-cs169-2x)| 8 weeks
[Software Product Management Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/product-management)| -

### Operating Systems

Course|
:--|
[Operating System Engineering](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-828-operating-system-engineering-fall-2012/)| -
[Operating Systems and System Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XgQo4JkN4Bw&list=PL3289DD0D0F0CD4A3)| -

### Computer Networks

Course|
:--|
[Computer Networks](https://www.coursera.org/course/comnetworks)| 4–12 hours/week
[Software Defined Networking](https://www.coursera.org/course/sdn1)| 7-10 hours/week

### Databases

Course|
:--|
[Introduction to Databases](https://www.coursera.org/course/db)| -
[Database Design](https://www.udemy.com/database-design/#reviews)| 9 hours
[Database Management Essentials](https://www.coursera.org/learn/database-management)| 8 weeks

### Cloud Computing

Course|
:--|
[Introduction to Cloud Computing](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-cloud-computing-ieeex-cloudintro-x-0)| 4 weeks
[Cloud Computing Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/cloudcomputing)| -

### Cryptography

Course|
:--|
[Cryptography I](https://www.coursera.org/course/crypto)| 6 weeks
[Cryptography II](https://www.coursera.org/course/crypto2)| 6 weeks
[Applied Cryptography](https://www.udacity.com/course/applied-cryptography--cs387)| 8 weeks

### Compilers

Course|
:--|
[Compilers](https://www.coursera.org/course/compilers)| 11 weeks

### UX Design

Course|
:--|
[Interaction Design Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/interaction-design)| -
[UX Design for Mobile Developers](https://www.udacity.com/course/ux-design-for-mobile-developers--ud849)| 6 weeks

### Artificial Intelligence

Course|
:--|
[Artificial Intelligence](https://www.edx.org/course/artificial-intelligence-uc-berkeleyx-cs188-1x#!)| 12 weeks

### Machine Learning

Course|
:--|
[Practical Machine Learning](https://www.coursera.org/course/predmachlearn)| 4 weeks
[Machine Learning](https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning)| 11 weeks
[Neural Networks for Machine Learning](https://www.coursera.org/course/neuralnets)| 8 weeks

### Natural Language Processing

Course|
:--|
[Natural Language Processing](https://www.coursera.org/course/nlangp)| 10 weeks
[Natural Language Processing](https://www.coursera.org/course/nlp)| 10 weeks

### Big Data

Course|
:--|
[Big Data Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/big-data)| -

### Data Mining

Course|
:--|
[Data Mining specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/datamining)| -

## How to use this guide

### Order of the classes

This guide was developed to be consumed in a linear approach. What does this mean? That you should complete one course at a time.

The courses are **already** in the order that you should complete them. Just start in the **Introduction** section and after finishing the first course, start the next one.

**If the course isn't open, do it anyway with the resources from the previous class.**

### Should I take all courses?

**Yes**! The intention is to conclude **all** the courses listed here!

### Duration of the project

It may take longer to complete all of the classes compared to a  regular CS course, but I can **guarantee** you that your **reward** will be proportional to **your motivation/dedication**!

You must focus on your **habit**, and **forget** about goals. Try to invest 1 ~ 2 hours **every day** studying this curriculum. If you do this, **inevitably** you'll finish this curriculum.

> See more about "Commit to a process, not a goal" [here](http://jamesclear.com/goals-systems).

### How can I track/show my progress?

To **track** your progress, you should update the profile that you created [here](https://github.com/open-source-society/computer-science/issues/31), adding the courses that you began or ended.

To **show** your progress, you should create a repository on GitHub to put all of the files that you created for each course.

You can create one repository per course, or just one repository that will contain all of the files for each course. The first option is our preferred approach.

**ps**: You should share **only** files that you are **allowed** to! **Do NOT disrespect the code of conduct** that you signed in the beginning of some courses.

[Be creative](#be-creative) in order to show your progress! :smile:

### Cooperative work

**We love cooperative work**! But is quite difficult to manage a large base of students with specific projects. Use our channels to communicate with other fellows to combine and create new projects.

### Which programming languages should I use?

My friend, here is the best part of liberty! You can use **any** language that you want to complete the courses.

The **important** thing for each course is to **internalize** the **core concepts** and to be able to use them with whatever tool (programming language) that you wish.

### Be creative!

This is a **crucial** part of your journey through all those courses.

You **need** to have in mind that what you are able to **create** with the concepts that you learned will be your certificate. **And this is what really matters**!

In order to show that you **really** learned those things, you need to be **creative**!

Here are some tips about how you can do that:

- **Articles**: create blog posts to synthesize/summarize what you learned.
- **GitHub repository**: keep your course's files organized in a GH repository, so in that way other students can use it to study with your annotations.
- **Real projects**: you can try to develop at least **one real project** for each course that you enroll. It doesn't need to be a big project, just a **small one** to **validate** and **consolidate** your knowledge. Some project suggestions [here](https://github.com/karan/Projects) and [here](https://github.com/ericdouglas/app-specs).

### Stay tuned

[Watch](https://help.github.com/articles/watching-repositories/) this repository for futures improvements and general information.

## Prerequisite

The **only things** that you need to know are how to use **Git** and **GitHub**. Here are some resources to learn about them:

- [Try Git](https://try.github.io/levels/1/challenges/1)
- [GitHub Training & Guides](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg7s6cbtAD15G8lNyoaYDuKZSKyJrgwB-)
- [GitHub Hello World](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/)
- [Git Immersion](http://gitimmersion.com/index.html)
- [How to Use Git and GitHub](https://www.udacity.com/course/how-to-use-git-and-github--ud775)

**ps**: You don't need to do all of the courses. Just pick one and learn the basics because you will learn more on the go!

## How to collaborate

You can [open an issue](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-an-issue/) and give us your suggestions as to how we can improve this guide, or what we can do to improve the learning experience.

You can also fork this project and fix any mistakes that you have found.

Let's do it together! =)

## Community

Join us in our [group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/open-source-society-university)!

You can also interact through [GitHub issues](https://github.com/open-source-society/computer-science-and-engineering/issues).

We also have a chat room! [![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/open-source-society/computer-science-and-engineering](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/open-source-society/computer-science-and-engineering?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Add **Open Source Society University** to your [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/ossuniversity) profile!

> **ps**: A forum is an ideal way to interact with other students as we do not lose important discussions, which usually occur in communication via chat apps. **Please use our forum for important discussions**.

## Next Goals

- [Adding our university page at Linkedin](https://help.linkedin.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/40128/~/adding-a-new-university-page), so that way we will be able to add **OSS University** in our Linkedin profile.

## References

- [Google - Guide for Technical Development](https://www.google.com/about/careers/students/guide-to-technical-development.html)
- [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/)
- [edX](https://www.edx.org)
- [MIT Open Courseware](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/#electrical-engineering-and-computer-science)

Commit message:

Add IoT section and course

README.md, after:


![open source society university](http://i.imgur.com/h8xjrrj.png)

### Open Source Society University

:mortar_board: **Path to a free self-taught graduation in Computer Science!**

## Contents

- [About](#about)
- [Becoming an OSS student](#becoming-an-oss-student)
- [Curriculum](#curriculum)
- [How to use this guide](#how-to-use-this-guide)
- [Prerequisite](#prerequisite)
- [How to collaborate](#how-to-collaborate)
- [Community](#community)
- [Next Goals](#next-goals)
- [References](#references)

## About

This is a **solid path** for those of you who want to complete a Computer Science course on your own time, **for free**, with courses from the **best universities** in the World.

In the future, more categories and/or courses will be added to this list or a more advanced/specialized list.

Initially, we will also give preference to MOOC (Massive Open Online Course) type of courses because those courses were created with our style of learning in mind.

## Becoming an OSS student

To officially register for this course you must create a profile in our [students profile](https://github.com/open-source-society/computer-science-and-engineering/issues/31) issue.

> **"How can I do this?"**

Comment in [this](https://github.com/open-source-society/computer-science-and-engineering/issues/31) issue  (please, do **not** open a new one) using the following template:

```
- **Name**: YOUR NAME
- **GitHub**: [@your_username]()
- **Twitter**: [@your_username]()
- **Linkedin**: [link]()
- **Website**: [yourblog.com]()

## Completed Courses

**Name of the Section**

Course|Files
:--|:--:
Course Name| [link]()
```

**IMPORTANT**: add your profile **only once** and **after** you **finish** each course you can **return** to that issue and **update** your comment.

**ps**: In the *Completed Courses* section, you should link the repository that contains the files that you created in the respective course.

> **"Why should I do this?"**

By making a [public commitment](http://renewablewealth.com/articles/the-power-of-a-public-commitment/), we have a greater chance of **successfully** graduating, a way to get to know our peers better, and an opportunity to share the things that we have done.

That is why we are using this strategy.

---

## Curriculum

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Program Design](#program-design)
- [Algorithms](#algorithms)
- [Programming Paradigms](#programming-paradigms)
- [Software Testing](#software-testing)
- [Math](#math)
- [Software Architecture](#software-architecture)
- [Software Engineering](#software-engineering)
- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Computer Networks](#computer-networks)
- [Databases](#databases)
- [Cloud Computing](#cloud-computing)
- [Cryptography](#cryptography)
- [Compilers](#compilers)
- [UX Design](#ux-design)
- [Artificial Intelligence](#artificial-intelligence)
- [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
- [Natural Language Processing](#natural-language-processing)
- [Big Data](#big-data)
- [Data Mining](#data-mining)
- [Internet of Things](#internet-of-things)

---

### Introduction

Course|
:--|
[Introduction to Computer Science](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x#!)| 9 ~ 15 weeks
[Introduction to Computer Science and Programming Using Python](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-mitx-6-00-1x-5#!)| 9 weeks
[Introduction to Computational Thinking and Data Science](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computational-thinking-data-mitx-6-00-2x-2#!)| 10 weeks

### Program Design

Course|
:--|
[Systematic Program Design- Part 1: The Core Method](https://www.edx.org/course/systematic-program-design-part-1-core-ubcx-spd1x-0)| 5 weeks
[Systematic Program Design- Part 2: Arbitrary Sized Data](https://www.edx.org/course/systematic-program-design-part-2-ubcx-spd2x)| 5 weeks
[Systematic Program Design- Part 3: Abstraction, Search and Graphs](https://www.edx.org/course/systematic-program-design-part-3-ubcx-spd3x)| 5 weeks

### Algorithms

Course|
:--|
[Algorithms, Part I](https://www.coursera.org/course/algs4partI)| 6 weeks
[Algorithms, Part II](https://www.coursera.org/course/algs4partII)| 6 weeks
[Analysis of Algorithms](https://www.coursera.org/course/aofa)| 6 weeks

### Programming Paradigms

Course|
:--|
[Introduction to Functional Programming](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-functional-programming-delftx-fp101x-0#ct-read-review-widget)| 7 weeks
[Object Oriented Programming in Java](https://www.coursera.org/learn/object-oriented-java) | 6 weeks
[Principles of Reactive Programming](https://www.coursera.org/course/reactive)| 7 weeks
[Programming Languages](https://www.coursera.org/course/proglang)| 8-16 hours/week
[Functional Programming Principles in Scala](https://www.coursera.org/course/progfun)| 7 weeks

### Software Testing

Course|
:--|
[Software Testing](https://www.udacity.com/course/software-testing--cs258)| 4 weeks
[Software Debugging](https://www.udacity.com/course/software-debugging--cs259)| 8 weeks

### Math

Course|
:--|
[Effective Thinking Through Mathematics](https://www.edx.org/course/effective-thinking-through-mathematics-utaustinx-ut-9-01x)| 9 weeks
[Applications of Linear Algebra Part 1](https://www.edx.org/course/applications-linear-algebra-part-1-davidsonx-d003x-1#ct-read-review-widget)| 5 weeks
[Applications of Linear Algebra Part 2](https://www.edx.org/course/applications-linear-algebra-part-2-davidsonx-d003x-2)| 4 weeks
[Linear and Discrete Optimization](https://www.coursera.org/course/linearopt)| 3-6 hours/week
[Probabilistic Graphical Models](https://www.coursera.org/course/pgm)| 11 weeks
[Game Theory](https://www.coursera.org/course/gametheory)| 9 weeks

### Software Architecture

Course|
:--|
[Web Application Architectures](https://www.coursera.org/course/webapplications)| 6-9 hours/week
[Software Architecture & Design](https://www.udacity.com/course/software-architecture-design--ud821)| -
[Microservice Architectures TODO]()| -

### Software Engineering

Course|
:--|
[Engineering Software as a Service (SaaS), Part 1](https://www.edx.org/course/engineering-software-service-saas-part-1-uc-berkeleyx-cs169-1x)| 9 weeks
[Engineering Software as a Service (Saas), Part 2](https://www.edx.org/course/engineering-software-service-saas-part-2-uc-berkeleyx-cs169-2x)| 8 weeks
[Software Product Management Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/product-management)| -

### Operating Systems

Course|
:--|
[Operating System Engineering](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-828-operating-system-engineering-fall-2012/)| -
[Operating Systems and System Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XgQo4JkN4Bw&list=PL3289DD0D0F0CD4A3)| -

### Computer Networks

Course|
:--|
[Computer Networks](https://www.coursera.org/course/comnetworks)| 4–12 hours/week
[Software Defined Networking](https://www.coursera.org/course/sdn1)| 7-10 hours/week

### Databases

Course|
:--|
[Introduction to Databases](https://www.coursera.org/course/db)| -
[Database Design](https://www.udemy.com/database-design/#reviews)| 9 hours
[Database Management Essentials](https://www.coursera.org/learn/database-management)| 8 weeks

### Cloud Computing

Course|
:--|
[Introduction to Cloud Computing](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-cloud-computing-ieeex-cloudintro-x-0)| 4 weeks
[Cloud Computing Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/cloudcomputing)| -

### Cryptography

Course|
:--|
[Cryptography I](https://www.coursera.org/course/crypto)| 6 weeks
[Cryptography II](https://www.coursera.org/course/crypto2)| 6 weeks
[Applied Cryptography](https://www.udacity.com/course/applied-cryptography--cs387)| 8 weeks

### Compilers

Course|
:--|
[Compilers](https://www.coursera.org/course/compilers)| 11 weeks

### UX Design

Course|
:--|
[Interaction Design Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/interaction-design)| -
[UX Design for Mobile Developers](https://www.udacity.com/course/ux-design-for-mobile-developers--ud849)| 6 weeks

### Artificial Intelligence

Course|
:--|
[Artificial Intelligence](https://www.edx.org/course/artificial-intelligence-uc-berkeleyx-cs188-1x#!)| 12 weeks

### Machine Learning

Course|
:--|
[Practical Machine Learning](https://www.coursera.org/course/predmachlearn)| 4 weeks
[Machine Learning](https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning)| 11 weeks
[Neural Networks for Machine Learning](https://www.coursera.org/course/neuralnets)| 8 weeks

### Natural Language Processing

Course|
:--|
[Natural Language Processing](https://www.coursera.org/course/nlangp)| 10 weeks
[Natural Language Processing](https://www.coursera.org/course/nlp)| 10 weeks

### Big Data

Course|
:--|
[Big Data Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/big-data)| -

### Data Mining

Course|
:--|
[Data Mining specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/datamining)| -

### Internet of Things

Course|
:--|
[The Internet of Things](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/internet-of-things)

## How to use this guide

### Order of the classes

This guide was developed to be consumed in a linear approach. What does this mean? That you should complete one course at a time.

The courses are **already** in the order that you should complete them. Just start in the **Introduction** section and after finishing the first course, start the next one.

**If the course isn't open, do it anyway with the resources from the previous class.**

### Should I take all courses?

**Yes**! The intention is to conclude **all** the courses listed here!

### Duration of the project

It may take longer to complete all of the classes compared to a  regular CS course, but I can **guarantee** you that your **reward** will be proportional to **your motivation/dedication**!

You must focus on your **habit**, and **forget** about goals. Try to invest 1 ~ 2 hours **every day** studying this curriculum. If you do this, **inevitably** you'll finish this curriculum.

> See more about "Commit to a process, not a goal" [here](http://jamesclear.com/goals-systems).

### How can I track/show my progress?

To **track** your progress, you should update the profile that you created [here](https://github.com/open-source-society/computer-science/issues/31), adding the courses that you began or ended.

To **show** your progress, you should create a repository on GitHub to put all of the files that you created for each course.

You can create one repository per course, or just one repository that will contain all of the files for each course. The first option is our preferred approach.

**ps**: You should share **only** files that you are **allowed** to! **Do NOT disrespect the code of conduct** that you signed in the beginning of some courses.

[Be creative](#be-creative) in order to show your progress! :smile:

### Cooperative work

**We love cooperative work**! But is quite difficult to manage a large base of students with specific projects. Use our channels to communicate with other fellows to combine and create new projects.

### Which programming languages should I use?

My friend, here is the best part of liberty! You can use **any** language that you want to complete the courses.

The **important** thing for each course is to **internalize** the **core concepts** and to be able to use them with whatever tool (programming language) that you wish.

### Be creative!

This is a **crucial** part of your journey through all those courses.

You **need** to have in mind that what you are able to **create** with the concepts that you learned will be your certificate. **And this is what really matters**!

In order to show that you **really** learned those things, you need to be **creative**!

Here are some tips about how you can do that:

- **Articles**: create blog posts to synthesize/summarize what you learned.
- **GitHub repository**: keep your course's files organized in a GH repository, so in that way other students can use it to study with your annotations.
- **Real projects**: you can try to develop at least **one real project** for each course that you enroll. It doesn't need to be a big project, just a **small one** to **validate** and **consolidate** your knowledge. Some project suggestions [here](https://github.com/karan/Projects) and [here](https://github.com/ericdouglas/app-specs).

### Stay tuned

[Watch](https://help.github.com/articles/watching-repositories/) this repository for futures improvements and general information.

## Prerequisite

The **only things** that you need to know are how to use **Git** and **GitHub**. Here are some resources to learn about them:

- [Try Git](https://try.github.io/levels/1/challenges/1)
- [GitHub Training & Guides](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg7s6cbtAD15G8lNyoaYDuKZSKyJrgwB-)
- [GitHub Hello World](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/)
- [Git Immersion](http://gitimmersion.com/index.html)
- [How to Use Git and GitHub](https://www.udacity.com/course/how-to-use-git-and-github--ud775)

**ps**: You don't need to do all of the courses. Just pick one and learn the basics because you will learn more on the go!

## How to collaborate

You can [open an issue](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-an-issue/) and give us your suggestions as to how we can improve this guide, or what we can do to improve the learning experience.

You can also fork this project and fix any mistakes that you have found.

Let's do it together! =)

## Community

Join us in our [group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/open-source-society-university)!

You can also interact through [GitHub issues](https://github.com/open-source-society/computer-science-and-engineering/issues).

We also have a chat room! [![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/open-source-society/computer-science-and-engineering](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/open-source-society/computer-science-and-engineering?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Add **Open Source Society University** to your [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/ossuniversity) profile!

> **ps**: A forum is an ideal way to interact with other students as we do not lose important discussions, which usually occur in communication via chat apps. **Please use our forum for important discussions**.

## Next Goals

- [Adding our university page at Linkedin](https://help.linkedin.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/40128/~/adding-a-new-university-page), so that way we will be able to add **OSS University** in our Linkedin profile.

## References

- [Google - Guide for Technical Development](https://www.google.com/about/careers/students/guide-to-technical-development.html)
- [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/)
- [edX](https://www.edx.org)
- [MIT Open Courseware](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/#electrical-engineering-and-computer-science)
