extras/advice.md, before:

<h3 align="center">Advice from Previous Students</h3>

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Courses](#courses)
  - [Introduction to Computer Science](#introduction-to-computer-science)
  - [Core CS](#core-cs)
  - [Advanced CS](#advanced-cs)
  - [Final project](#final-project)
  - [Pro CS](#pro-cs)

# Summary

This page has advice for each course that is good to know before you start the course. The advice is from previous students. If you have taken one of the courses, feel free to add your own advice!

# Courses

## Introduction to Computer Science


Courses | 
:-- | 
[Introduction to Computer Science and Programming using Python](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-mitx-6-00-1x-10) ([alt](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-0001-introduction-to-computer-science-and-programming-in-python-fall-2016/)) |
Add your advice here! | 

## Core CS

### Core programming


Courses | 
:-- | 
[How to Code - Simple Data](https://www.edx.org/course/how-code-simple-data-ubcx-htc1x) |
Add your advice here! | 
[How to Code - Complex Data](https://www.edx.org/course/how-code-complex-data-ubcx-htc2x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Construction - Data Abstraction](https://www.edx.org/course/software-construction-data-abstraction-ubcx-softconst1x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Construction - Object-Oriented Design](https://www.edx.org/course/software-construction-object-oriented-ubcx-softconst2x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Programming Languages, Part A](https://www.coursera.org/learn/programming-languages) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Programming Languages, Part B](https://www.coursera.org/learn/programming-languages-part-b) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Programming Languages, Part C](https://www.coursera.org/learn/programming-languages-part-c) | 
Add your advice here! | 


#### Readings
- Add your advice about the readings here!

### Core math


Courses | 
:-- | 
[Essence of Linear Algebra](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZHQObOWTQDPD3MizzM2xVFitgF8hE_ab) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Linear Algebra - Foundations to Frontiers](https://www.edx.org/course/linear-algebra-foundations-to-frontiers-0) ([alt](http://ulaff.net/)) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Calculus 1A: Differentiation](https://www.edx.org/course/calculus-1a-differentiation) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Calculus 1B: Integration](https://www.edx.org/course/calculus-1b-integration) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Calculus 1C: Coordinate Systems & Infinite Series](https://www.edx.org/course/calculus-1c-coordinate-systems-infinite-series) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Mathematics for Computer Science](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-spring-2015/index.htm)<sup>**1**</sup> | 
Add your advice here! | 


### Core systems

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Introduction to Computer Science - CS50](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x#!) ([alt](https://cs50.harvard.edu/)) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Build a Modern Computer from First Principles: From Nand to Tetris](https://www.coursera.org/learn/build-a-computer) ([alt](http://www.nand2tetris.org/)) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Build a Modern Computer from First Principles: Nand to Tetris Part II ](https://www.coursera.org/learn/nand2tetris2) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Introduction to Computer Networking](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/Engineering/Networking-SP/SelfPaced/about)| 
There known issues with quizzes/exams. In particular, some questions ask about content from future lectures. If in doubt, search the course forum ("Piazza") for guidance. <br>Specific issues: <br>Midterm, final question assumes knowledge of DHCP. You will need to complete unit 5 first. <br>The second quiz in 5-5 (HTTP): Do not include the initial page request. Minus 5 from your answer. (Search "5-5" in Piazza) | 
[ops-class.org - Hack the Kernel](https://www.ops-class.org/) |
Add your advice here! | 

### Core theory

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Algorithms: Design and Analysis, Part I](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:Engineering+Algorithms1+SelfPaced/about) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Algorithms: Design and Analysis, Part II](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:Engineering+Algorithms2+SelfPaced/about) | 
Add your advice here! | 


### Core applications

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Databases](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/DB/2014/SelfPaced/about)| 
Add your advice here! | 
[Machine Learning](https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning)| 
Add your advice here! | 
[Computer Graphics](https://www.edx.org/course/computer-graphics-uc-san-diegox-cse167x)| 
Add your advice here! | 
[Cryptography I](https://www.coursera.org/course/crypto)| 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Engineering: Introduction](https://www.edx.org/course/software-engineering-introduction-ubcx-softeng1x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Development Capstone Project](https://www.edx.org/course/software-development-capstone-project-ubcx-softengprjx) | 
Add your advice here! | 

## Advanced CS

### Advanced programming

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Compilers](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/Engineering/Compilers/Fall2014/about)| 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Debugging](https://www.udacity.com/course/software-debugging--cs259)| 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Testing](https://www.udacity.com/course/software-testing--cs258) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[LAFF - On Programming for Correctness](https://www.edx.org/course/laff-on-programming-for-correctness) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Introduction to Parallel Programming](https://classroom.udacity.com/courses/cs344) ([alt](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLGvfHSgImk4aweyWlhBXNF6XISY3um82_)) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Architecture & Design](https://www.udacity.com/course/software-architecture-design--ud821)| 
Add your advice here! | 

### Advanced math

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Multivariable Calculus](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-02sc-multivariable-calculus-fall-2010/index.htm) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Introduction to Probability - The Science of Uncertainty](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-probability-science-mitx-6-041x-2) | 
Add your advice here! | 

### Advanced systems

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Reliable Distributed Systems, Part 1](https://www.edx.org/course/reliable-distributed-algorithms-part-1-kthx-id2203-1x) |
Add your advice here! | 
[Reliable Distributed Systems, Part 2](https://www.edx.org/course/reliable-distributed-algorithms-part-2-kthx-id2203-2x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Electricity and Magnetism, Part 1](https://www.edx.org/course/electricity-magnetism-part-1-ricex-phys102-1x-0)<sup>1</sup> | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Electricity and Magnetism, Part 2](https://www.edx.org/course/electricity-magnetism-part-2-ricex-phys102-2x-0) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Computation Structures 1: Digital Circuits](https://www.edx.org/course/computation-structures-part-1-digital-mitx-6-004-1x-0) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Computation Structures 2: Computer Architecture](https://www.edx.org/course/computation-structures-2-computer-mitx-6-004-2x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Computation Structures 3: Computer Organization](https://www.edx.org/course/computation-structures-3-computer-mitx-6-004-3x-0) | 
Add your advice here! | 

### Advanced theory

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Introduction to Logic](https://www.coursera.org/learn/logic-introduction) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Automata Theory](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:ComputerScience+Automata+SelfPaced/about) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Computational Geometry](https://www.edx.org/course/computational-geometry-tsinghuax-70240183x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Introduction to Formal Concept Analysis](https://www.coursera.org/learn/formal-concept-analysis) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Game Theory](https://www.coursera.org/learn/game-theory-1) | 
Add your advice here! | 

### Advanced applications

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Robotics (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/robotics) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Data Mining (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/data-mining) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Big Data (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/big-data) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Internet of Things (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/internet-of-things) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Cloud Computing (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/cloud-computing) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Full Stack Web Development (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/full-stack) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Data Science (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/jhu-data-science) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Functional Programming in Scala (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/scala) | 
Add your advice here! | 

## Final project

Add your advice about the final project here!


## Pro CS

Add your advice about the Pro CS specializations here!

Commit message:

Added Maths for CS advice

extras/advice.md, after:

<h3 align="center">Advice from Previous Students</h3>

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Courses](#courses)
  - [Introduction to Computer Science](#introduction-to-computer-science)
  - [Core CS](#core-cs)
  - [Advanced CS](#advanced-cs)
  - [Final project](#final-project)
  - [Pro CS](#pro-cs)

# Summary

This page has advice for each course that is good to know before you start the course. The advice is from previous students. If you have taken one of the courses, feel free to add your own advice!

# Courses

## Introduction to Computer Science


Courses | 
:-- | 
[Introduction to Computer Science and Programming using Python](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-mitx-6-00-1x-10) ([alt](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-0001-introduction-to-computer-science-and-programming-in-python-fall-2016/)) |
Add your advice here! | 

## Core CS

### Core programming


Courses | 
:-- | 
[How to Code - Simple Data](https://www.edx.org/course/how-code-simple-data-ubcx-htc1x) |
Add your advice here! | 
[How to Code - Complex Data](https://www.edx.org/course/how-code-complex-data-ubcx-htc2x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Construction - Data Abstraction](https://www.edx.org/course/software-construction-data-abstraction-ubcx-softconst1x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Construction - Object-Oriented Design](https://www.edx.org/course/software-construction-object-oriented-ubcx-softconst2x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Programming Languages, Part A](https://www.coursera.org/learn/programming-languages) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Programming Languages, Part B](https://www.coursera.org/learn/programming-languages-part-b) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Programming Languages, Part C](https://www.coursera.org/learn/programming-languages-part-c) | 
Add your advice here! | 
 

#### Readings
- Add your advice about the readings here!

### Core math


Courses | 
:-- | 
[Essence of Linear Algebra](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZHQObOWTQDPD3MizzM2xVFitgF8hE_ab) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Linear Algebra - Foundations to Frontiers](https://www.edx.org/course/linear-algebra-foundations-to-frontiers-0) ([alt](http://ulaff.net/)) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Calculus 1A: Differentiation](https://www.edx.org/course/calculus-1a-differentiation) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Calculus 1B: Integration](https://www.edx.org/course/calculus-1b-integration) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Calculus 1C: Coordinate Systems & Infinite Series](https://www.edx.org/course/calculus-1c-coordinate-systems-infinite-series) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Mathematics for Computer Science](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-spring-2015/index.htm) | 
The 2015 MIT course Mathematics for Computer Science provides no solutions to problem sets and assignments. You may follow this course structure instead: <br><br> [2015 Online Lecture videos](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-spring-2015/proofs/) <br> [2015 Readings](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-spring-2015/readings/) <br> [2010 Recitation Problems with Solutions](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-fall-2010/recitations/) <br> [2005 Problem Sets/Assignments](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-fall-2005/assignments/) <br> _Optional: [2010 Video Lectures](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-fall-2010/video-lectures/)_ <br><br> The problem sets and recitation problems from the older courses have solutions and mostly follow the same course structure. Occasionally, there may be a problem about something you have not done. In this case, use your judgement to decide if it is something that you can reasonably answer and consider returning to the problem at a later date. |


### Core systems

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Introduction to Computer Science - CS50](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x#!) ([alt](https://cs50.harvard.edu/)) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Build a Modern Computer from First Principles: From Nand to Tetris](https://www.coursera.org/learn/build-a-computer) ([alt](http://www.nand2tetris.org/)) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Build a Modern Computer from First Principles: Nand to Tetris Part II ](https://www.coursera.org/learn/nand2tetris2) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Introduction to Computer Networking](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/Engineering/Networking-SP/SelfPaced/about)| 
There known issues with quizzes/exams. In particular, some questions ask about content from future lectures. If in doubt, search the course forum ("Piazza") for guidance. <br>Specific issues: <br>Midterm, final question assumes knowledge of DHCP. You will need to complete unit 5 first. <br>The second quiz in 5-5 (HTTP): Do not include the initial page request. Minus 5 from your answer. (Search "5-5" in Piazza) | 
[ops-class.org - Hack the Kernel](https://www.ops-class.org/) |
Add your advice here! | 

### Core theory

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Algorithms: Design and Analysis, Part I](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:Engineering+Algorithms1+SelfPaced/about) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Algorithms: Design and Analysis, Part II](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:Engineering+Algorithms2+SelfPaced/about) | 
Add your advice here! | 


### Core applications

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Databases](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/DB/2014/SelfPaced/about)| 
Add your advice here! | 
[Machine Learning](https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning)| 
Add your advice here! | 
[Computer Graphics](https://www.edx.org/course/computer-graphics-uc-san-diegox-cse167x)| 
Add your advice here! | 
[Cryptography I](https://www.coursera.org/course/crypto)| 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Engineering: Introduction](https://www.edx.org/course/software-engineering-introduction-ubcx-softeng1x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Development Capstone Project](https://www.edx.org/course/software-development-capstone-project-ubcx-softengprjx) | 
Add your advice here! | 

## Advanced CS

### Advanced programming

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Compilers](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/Engineering/Compilers/Fall2014/about)| 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Debugging](https://www.udacity.com/course/software-debugging--cs259)| 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Testing](https://www.udacity.com/course/software-testing--cs258) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[LAFF - On Programming for Correctness](https://www.edx.org/course/laff-on-programming-for-correctness) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Introduction to Parallel Programming](https://classroom.udacity.com/courses/cs344) ([alt](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLGvfHSgImk4aweyWlhBXNF6XISY3um82_)) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Software Architecture & Design](https://www.udacity.com/course/software-architecture-design--ud821)| 
Add your advice here! | 

### Advanced math

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Multivariable Calculus](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-02sc-multivariable-calculus-fall-2010/index.htm) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Introduction to Probability - The Science of Uncertainty](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-probability-science-mitx-6-041x-2) | 
Add your advice here! | 

### Advanced systems

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Reliable Distributed Systems, Part 1](https://www.edx.org/course/reliable-distributed-algorithms-part-1-kthx-id2203-1x) |
Add your advice here! | 
[Reliable Distributed Systems, Part 2](https://www.edx.org/course/reliable-distributed-algorithms-part-2-kthx-id2203-2x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Electricity and Magnetism, Part 1](https://www.edx.org/course/electricity-magnetism-part-1-ricex-phys102-1x-0)<sup>1</sup> | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Electricity and Magnetism, Part 2](https://www.edx.org/course/electricity-magnetism-part-2-ricex-phys102-2x-0) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Computation Structures 1: Digital Circuits](https://www.edx.org/course/computation-structures-part-1-digital-mitx-6-004-1x-0) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Computation Structures 2: Computer Architecture](https://www.edx.org/course/computation-structures-2-computer-mitx-6-004-2x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Computation Structures 3: Computer Organization](https://www.edx.org/course/computation-structures-3-computer-mitx-6-004-3x-0) | 
Add your advice here! | 

### Advanced theory

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Introduction to Logic](https://www.coursera.org/learn/logic-introduction) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Automata Theory](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/course-v1:ComputerScience+Automata+SelfPaced/about) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Computational Geometry](https://www.edx.org/course/computational-geometry-tsinghuax-70240183x) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Introduction to Formal Concept Analysis](https://www.coursera.org/learn/formal-concept-analysis) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Game Theory](https://www.coursera.org/learn/game-theory-1) | 
Add your advice here! | 

### Advanced applications

Courses | 
:-- | 
[Robotics (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/robotics) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Data Mining (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/data-mining) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Big Data (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/big-data) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Internet of Things (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/internet-of-things) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Cloud Computing (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/cloud-computing) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Full Stack Web Development (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/full-stack) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Data Science (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/jhu-data-science) | 
Add your advice here! | 
[Functional Programming in Scala (Specialization)](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/scala) | 
Add your advice here! | 

## Final project

Add your advice about the final project here!


## Pro CS

Add your advice about the Pro CS specializations here!
