extras/courses.md, before:

# Computer Science - Extra Resources

## Courses

- [Introduction to Computer Science](#introduction-to-computer-science)
- [Math (Mathematical Thinking)](#math-mathematical-thinking)
- [Program Design](#program-design)
- [Math (Discrete Math)](#math-discrete-math)
- [Algorithms](#algorithms)
- [Programming Paradigms](#programming-paradigms)
- [Software Testing](#software-testing)
- [Math (Calculus)](#math-calculus)
- [Software Architecture](#software-architecture)
- [Theory](#theory)
- [Software Engineering](#software-engineering)
- [Math (Probability)](#math-probability)
- [Computer Architecture](#computer-architecture)
- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Computer Networks](#computer-networks)
- [Databases](#databases)
- [Cloud Computing](#cloud-computing)
- [Math (Linear Algebra)](#math-linear-algebra)
- [Cryptography](#cryptography)
- [Security](#security)
- [Compilers](#compilers)
- [Parallel Computing](#parallel-computing)
- [UX Design](#ux-design)
- [Computer Graphics](#computer-graphics)
- [Artificial Intelligence](#artificial-intelligence)
- [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
- [Natural Language Processing](#natural-language-processing)
- [Big Data](#big-data)
- [Data Mining](#data-mining)
- [Internet of Things](#internet-of-things)

---

### Introduction to Computer Science

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Introduction to Computer Science (Udacity)](https://www.udacity.com/course/intro-to-computer-science--cs101)| 7 weeks | 10-20 hours/week
[Introduction to Computer Science](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x#!)| 12 weeks | 10-20 hours/week
[An Introduction to Interactive Programming in Python (Part 1)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/interactive-python-1)| 5 weeks | -
[An Introduction to Interactive Programming in Python (Part 2)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/interactive-python-2)| - | -
[Introduction to Computational Thinking and Data Science](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computational-thinking-data-mitx-6-00-2x-2#!)| 10 weeks | 15 hours/week
[Introduction to Programming with Java Part 1: Starting to Code with Java](https://prod-edx-mktg-edit.edx.org/course/introduction-programming-java-part-1-uc3mx-it-1-1x-0)| 5 weeks | 5-7 hours/week
[Introduction to Programming with Java Part 2: Writing Good Code](https://prod-edx-mktg-edit.edx.org/course/introduction-programming-java-part-2-uc3mx-it-1-2x)| 5 weeks | 5-7 hours/week
[CS For All: Introduction to Computer Science and Python Programming](https://www.edx.org/course/cs-all-introduction-computer-science-harveymuddx-cs005x-0)| 14 weeks | 5-7 hours/week
[Programming Basics](https://www.edx.org/course/programming-basics-iitbombayx-cs101-1x)| 9 weeks | 8 hours/week
[Introduction to Logic](https://www.coursera.org/course/intrologic)| 8 weeks | 4-10 hours/week

### Math (Mathematical Thinking)

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Introduction to Mathematical Thinking](https://www.coursera.org/course/maththink)| 10 weeks | 8-10 hours/week

### Program Design

### Math (Discrete Math)

### Algorithms

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Analysis of Algorithms](https://www.coursera.org/course/aofa)| 6 weeks | 6-8 hours/week

### Programming Paradigms

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Principles of Reactive Programming](https://www.coursera.org/course/reactive)| 7 weeks | 5-7 hours/week
[Object-Oriented Programming](https://www.edx.org/course/object-oriented-programming-iitbombayx-cs101-2x)| 4 weeks | 8 hours/week
[Introduction to Functional Programming](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-functional-programming-delftx-fp101x-0)| 7 weeks | 4-6 hours/week
### Software Testing

### Math (Calculus)

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Pre-Calculus](https://www.coursera.org/course/precalculus)| 10 weeks | 10-12 hours/week
[Multivariable Calculus](https://www.coursera.org/course/m2o2c2)| 6 weeks | 5-7 hours/week

### Software Architecture

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Web Application Architectures](https://www.coursera.org/course/webapplications)| 6 weeks | 6-9 hours/week

### Theory

### Software Engineering

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Agile Development Using Ruby on Rails - Basics](https://www.edx.org/course/agile-development-using-ruby-rails-uc-berkeleyx-cs169-1x)| 9 weeks | 12 hours/week
[Agile Development Using Ruby on Rails - Advanced](https://www.edx.org/course/agile-development-using-ruby-rails-uc-berkeleyx-cs169-2x)| 8 weeks | 12 hours/week
[Startup Engineering](https://www.coursera.org/course/startup) | 12 weeks | 2-20 hours/week

### Math (Probability)

### Computer Architecture

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[The Hardware/Software Interface](https://www.coursera.org/course/hwswinterface)| 8 weeks | 10-15 hours/week

### Operating Systems

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Operating System Engineering](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-828-operating-system-engineering-fall-2012/)| - | -
[Introduction to Linux](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-linux-linuxfoundationx-lfs101x-0)| 8 weeks | 5-8 hours/week

### Computer Networks

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Introduction to Computer Networking](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/Engineering/Networking-SP/SelfPaced/about) | - | 5-10 hours/week

### Databases

### Cloud Computing

### Math (Linear Algebra)

### Cryptography

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Applied Cryptography](https://www.udacity.com/course/applied-cryptography--cs387)| 8 weeks | 6 hours/week
[Cryptography](https://www.coursera.org/learn/cryptography/)| 7 weeks | 4-7 hours/week
### Security
Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Usable Security](https://www.coursera.org/learn/usable-security/)| 7 weeks | 5-8 hours/week
[Software Security](https://www.coursera.org/learn/software-security/)| 6 weeks | 3-5 hours/week
[Cybersecurity and Its Ten Domains](https://www.coursera.org/learn/cyber-security-domain/)| 7 weeks | 4-7 hours/week
[Designing and Executing Information Security Strategies](https://www.coursera.org/course/infosec)| 10 weeks | 4-6 hours/week
### Compilers

### Parallel Computing

### UX Design

### Computer Graphics

### Artificial Intelligence
Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Discrete Optimization](https://www.coursera.org/course/optimization)| 9 weeks | 10-20 hours/week
[Intro to Artificial Intelligence](https://www.udacity.com/course/intro-to-artificial-intelligence--cs271)| 16 weeks | 6-10 hours/week

### Machine Learning

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Intro to Machine Learning](https://www.udacity.com/course/intro-to-machine-learning--ud120)| 10 weeks | 6-10 hours/week

### Natural Language Processing

### Big Data

### Data Mining

### Internet of Things
Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Internet of Things: How did we get here?](https://www.coursera.org/learn/internet-of-things-history/)| 2 weeks | 2-3 hours/week
[Internet of Things: Setting Up Your DragonBoard™ Development Platform](https://www.coursera.org/learn/internet-of-things-dragonboard/)| 10 weeks | 2-3 hours/week
[Internet of Things: Sensing and Actuation From Devices](https://www.coursera.org/learn/internet-of-things-sensing-actuation)| 6 weeks | 3-5 hours/week
[Internet of Things: Communication Technologies](https://www.coursera.org/learn/internet-of-things-communication)| 4 weeks | 1 hours/week
[Internet of Things: MultimediaTechnologies](https://www.coursera.org/learn/internet-of-things-multimedia)| 3 weeks | 1-2 hours/week

Commit message:

added another internet of things course

extras/courses.md, after:

# Computer Science - Extra Resources

## Courses

- [Introduction to Computer Science](#introduction-to-computer-science)
- [Math (Mathematical Thinking)](#math-mathematical-thinking)
- [Program Design](#program-design)
- [Math (Discrete Math)](#math-discrete-math)
- [Algorithms](#algorithms)
- [Programming Paradigms](#programming-paradigms)
- [Software Testing](#software-testing)
- [Math (Calculus)](#math-calculus)
- [Software Architecture](#software-architecture)
- [Theory](#theory)
- [Software Engineering](#software-engineering)
- [Math (Probability)](#math-probability)
- [Computer Architecture](#computer-architecture)
- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Computer Networks](#computer-networks)
- [Databases](#databases)
- [Cloud Computing](#cloud-computing)
- [Math (Linear Algebra)](#math-linear-algebra)
- [Cryptography](#cryptography)
- [Security](#security)
- [Compilers](#compilers)
- [Parallel Computing](#parallel-computing)
- [UX Design](#ux-design)
- [Computer Graphics](#computer-graphics)
- [Artificial Intelligence](#artificial-intelligence)
- [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
- [Natural Language Processing](#natural-language-processing)
- [Big Data](#big-data)
- [Data Mining](#data-mining)
- [Internet of Things](#internet-of-things)

---

### Introduction to Computer Science

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Introduction to Computer Science (Udacity)](https://www.udacity.com/course/intro-to-computer-science--cs101)| 7 weeks | 10-20 hours/week
[Introduction to Computer Science](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x#!)| 12 weeks | 10-20 hours/week
[An Introduction to Interactive Programming in Python (Part 1)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/interactive-python-1)| 5 weeks | -
[An Introduction to Interactive Programming in Python (Part 2)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/interactive-python-2)| - | -
[Introduction to Computational Thinking and Data Science](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computational-thinking-data-mitx-6-00-2x-2#!)| 10 weeks | 15 hours/week
[Introduction to Programming with Java Part 1: Starting to Code with Java](https://prod-edx-mktg-edit.edx.org/course/introduction-programming-java-part-1-uc3mx-it-1-1x-0)| 5 weeks | 5-7 hours/week
[Introduction to Programming with Java Part 2: Writing Good Code](https://prod-edx-mktg-edit.edx.org/course/introduction-programming-java-part-2-uc3mx-it-1-2x)| 5 weeks | 5-7 hours/week
[CS For All: Introduction to Computer Science and Python Programming](https://www.edx.org/course/cs-all-introduction-computer-science-harveymuddx-cs005x-0)| 14 weeks | 5-7 hours/week
[Programming Basics](https://www.edx.org/course/programming-basics-iitbombayx-cs101-1x)| 9 weeks | 8 hours/week
[Introduction to Logic](https://www.coursera.org/course/intrologic)| 8 weeks | 4-10 hours/week

### Math (Mathematical Thinking)

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Introduction to Mathematical Thinking](https://www.coursera.org/course/maththink)| 10 weeks | 8-10 hours/week

### Program Design

### Math (Discrete Math)

### Algorithms

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Analysis of Algorithms](https://www.coursera.org/course/aofa)| 6 weeks | 6-8 hours/week

### Programming Paradigms

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Principles of Reactive Programming](https://www.coursera.org/course/reactive)| 7 weeks | 5-7 hours/week
[Object-Oriented Programming](https://www.edx.org/course/object-oriented-programming-iitbombayx-cs101-2x)| 4 weeks | 8 hours/week
[Introduction to Functional Programming](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-functional-programming-delftx-fp101x-0)| 7 weeks | 4-6 hours/week
### Software Testing

### Math (Calculus)

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Pre-Calculus](https://www.coursera.org/course/precalculus)| 10 weeks | 10-12 hours/week
[Multivariable Calculus](https://www.coursera.org/course/m2o2c2)| 6 weeks | 5-7 hours/week

### Software Architecture

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Web Application Architectures](https://www.coursera.org/course/webapplications)| 6 weeks | 6-9 hours/week

### Theory

### Software Engineering

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Agile Development Using Ruby on Rails - Basics](https://www.edx.org/course/agile-development-using-ruby-rails-uc-berkeleyx-cs169-1x)| 9 weeks | 12 hours/week
[Agile Development Using Ruby on Rails - Advanced](https://www.edx.org/course/agile-development-using-ruby-rails-uc-berkeleyx-cs169-2x)| 8 weeks | 12 hours/week
[Startup Engineering](https://www.coursera.org/course/startup) | 12 weeks | 2-20 hours/week

### Math (Probability)

### Computer Architecture

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[The Hardware/Software Interface](https://www.coursera.org/course/hwswinterface)| 8 weeks | 10-15 hours/week

### Operating Systems

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Operating System Engineering](http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-828-operating-system-engineering-fall-2012/)| - | -
[Introduction to Linux](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-linux-linuxfoundationx-lfs101x-0)| 8 weeks | 5-8 hours/week

### Computer Networks

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Introduction to Computer Networking](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/Engineering/Networking-SP/SelfPaced/about) | - | 5-10 hours/week

### Databases

### Cloud Computing

### Math (Linear Algebra)

### Cryptography

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Applied Cryptography](https://www.udacity.com/course/applied-cryptography--cs387)| 8 weeks | 6 hours/week
[Cryptography](https://www.coursera.org/learn/cryptography/)| 7 weeks | 4-7 hours/week
### Security
Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Usable Security](https://www.coursera.org/learn/usable-security/)| 7 weeks | 5-8 hours/week
[Software Security](https://www.coursera.org/learn/software-security/)| 6 weeks | 3-5 hours/week
[Cybersecurity and Its Ten Domains](https://www.coursera.org/learn/cyber-security-domain/)| 7 weeks | 4-7 hours/week
[Designing and Executing Information Security Strategies](https://www.coursera.org/course/infosec)| 10 weeks | 4-6 hours/week
### Compilers

### Parallel Computing

### UX Design

### Computer Graphics

### Artificial Intelligence
Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Discrete Optimization](https://www.coursera.org/course/optimization)| 9 weeks | 10-20 hours/week
[Intro to Artificial Intelligence](https://www.udacity.com/course/intro-to-artificial-intelligence--cs271)| 16 weeks | 6-10 hours/week

### Machine Learning

Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Intro to Machine Learning](https://www.udacity.com/course/intro-to-machine-learning--ud120)| 10 weeks | 6-10 hours/week

### Natural Language Processing

### Big Data

### Data Mining

### Internet of Things
Courses | Duration | Effort
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Introduction to the Internet of Things and Embedded Systems](https://www.coursera.org/learn/iot/?source=phoenixCdp2016AbTest)| 4 weeks | 1-3 hours/week
[Internet of Things: How did we get here?](https://www.coursera.org/learn/internet-of-things-history/)| 2 weeks | 2-3 hours/week
[Internet of Things: Setting Up Your DragonBoard™ Development Platform](https://www.coursera.org/learn/internet-of-things-dragonboard/)| 10 weeks | 2-3 hours/week
[Internet of Things: Sensing and Actuation From Devices](https://www.coursera.org/learn/internet-of-things-sensing-actuation)| 6 weeks | 3-5 hours/week
[Internet of Things: Communication Technologies](https://www.coursera.org/learn/internet-of-things-communication)| 4 weeks | 1 hours/week
[Internet of Things: MultimediaTechnologies](https://www.coursera.org/learn/internet-of-things-multimedia)| 3 weeks | 1-2 hours/week
