extras/free-books.md, before:

# Computer Science - Extra Resources

## Free Books

- [Introduction to Computer Science](#introduction-to-computer-science)
- [Math (Mathematical Thinking)](#math-mathematical-thinking)
- [Program Design](#program-design)
- [Math (Discrete Math)](#math-discrete-math)
- [Algorithms](#algorithms)
- [Programming Paradigms](#programming-paradigms)
- [Software Testing](#software-testing)
- [Math (Calculus)](#math-calculus)
- [Software Architecture](#software-architecture)
- [Theory](#theory)
- [Software Engineering](#software-engineering)
- [Math (Probability)](#math-probability)
- [Computer Architecture](#computer-architecture)
- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Computer Networks](#computer-networks)
- [Databases](#databases)
- [Cloud Computing](#cloud-computing)
- [Math (Linear Algebra)](#math-linear-algebra)
- [Cryptography](#cryptography)
- [Security](#security)
- [Compilers](#compilers)
- [Parallel Computing](#parallel-computing)
- [UX Design](#ux-design)
- [Computer Graphics](#computer-graphics)
- [Artificial Intelligence](#artificial-intelligence)
- [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
- [Natural Language Processing](#natural-language-processing)
- [Big Data](#big-data)
- [Data Mining](#data-mining)
- [Internet of Things](#internet-of-things)

---

### Introduction to Computer Science

Name | Author(s)
:-- | :--:
[Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs](https://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/full-text/book/book.html) | Hal Abelson, Jerry Sussman, Julie Sussman 

### Math (Mathematical Thinking)

### Program Design

### Math (Discrete Math)

### Algorithms

### Programming Paradigms

### Software Testing

### Math (Calculus)

Name | Author(s)
:-- | :--:
[Calculus Made Easy](http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/33283) | Silvanus P. Thompson 

### Software Architecture

### Theory

### Software Engineering

### Math (Probability)

Name | Author(s) 
:-- | :--: 
[Grinstead and Snell’s Introduction to Probability](https://math.dartmouth.edu/~prob/prob/prob.pdf) |Charles M. Grinstead, J. Laurie Snell

### Computer Architecture

### Operating Systems

### Computer Networks

### Databases

### Cloud Computing

### Math (Linear Algebra)

### Cryptography

### Security

### Compilers

Name | Author(s)
:-- | :--:
[Compiler Construction](http://www.ethoberon.ethz.ch/WirthPubl/CBEAll.pdf) | Niklaus Wirth 


### Parallel Computing

### UX Design

### Computer Graphics

### Artificial Intelligence

### Machine Learning

Name | Author(s)
:-- | :--:
[Deep Learning](http://www.deeplearningbook.org/) | Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio and Aaron Courville

### Natural Language Processing

### Big Data

### Data Mining

### Internet of Things

Commit message:

Add 'Introduction to Computing' by David Evans to free books in extras

extras/free-books.md, after:

# Computer Science - Extra Resources

## Free Books

- [Introduction to Computer Science](#introduction-to-computer-science)
- [Math (Mathematical Thinking)](#math-mathematical-thinking)
- [Program Design](#program-design)
- [Math (Discrete Math)](#math-discrete-math)
- [Algorithms](#algorithms)
- [Programming Paradigms](#programming-paradigms)
- [Software Testing](#software-testing)
- [Math (Calculus)](#math-calculus)
- [Software Architecture](#software-architecture)
- [Theory](#theory)
- [Software Engineering](#software-engineering)
- [Math (Probability)](#math-probability)
- [Computer Architecture](#computer-architecture)
- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Computer Networks](#computer-networks)
- [Databases](#databases)
- [Cloud Computing](#cloud-computing)
- [Math (Linear Algebra)](#math-linear-algebra)
- [Cryptography](#cryptography)
- [Security](#security)
- [Compilers](#compilers)
- [Parallel Computing](#parallel-computing)
- [UX Design](#ux-design)
- [Computer Graphics](#computer-graphics)
- [Artificial Intelligence](#artificial-intelligence)
- [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
- [Natural Language Processing](#natural-language-processing)
- [Big Data](#big-data)
- [Data Mining](#data-mining)
- [Internet of Things](#internet-of-things)

---

### Introduction to Computer Science

Name | Author(s)
:-- | :--:
[Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs](https://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/full-text/book/book.html) | Hal Abelson, Jerry Sussman, Julie Sussman 
[Introduction to Computing: Explorations in Language, Logic, and Machines](http://www.computingbook.org/) | David Evans

### Math (Mathematical Thinking)

### Program Design

### Math (Discrete Math)

### Algorithms

### Programming Paradigms

### Software Testing

### Math (Calculus)

Name | Author(s)
:-- | :--:
[Calculus Made Easy](http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/33283) | Silvanus P. Thompson 

### Software Architecture

### Theory

### Software Engineering

### Math (Probability)

Name | Author(s) 
:-- | :--: 
[Grinstead and Snell’s Introduction to Probability](https://math.dartmouth.edu/~prob/prob/prob.pdf) |Charles M. Grinstead, J. Laurie Snell

### Computer Architecture

### Operating Systems

### Computer Networks

### Databases

### Cloud Computing

### Math (Linear Algebra)

### Cryptography

### Security

### Compilers

Name | Author(s)
:-- | :--:
[Compiler Construction](http://www.ethoberon.ethz.ch/WirthPubl/CBEAll.pdf) | Niklaus Wirth 


### Parallel Computing

### UX Design

### Computer Graphics

### Artificial Intelligence

### Machine Learning

Name | Author(s)
:-- | :--:
[Deep Learning](http://www.deeplearningbook.org/) | Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio and Aaron Courville

### Natural Language Processing

### Big Data

### Data Mining

### Internet of Things
