extras/paid-books.md, before:

# Computer Science - Extra Resources

## Paid Books

- [Introduction to Computer Science](#introduction-to-computer-science)
- [Math (Mathematical Thinking)](#math-mathematical-thinking)
- [Program Design](#program-design)
- [Math (Discrete Math)](#math-discrete-math)
- [Algorithms](#algorithms)
- [Programming Paradigms](#programming-paradigms)
- [Software Testing](#software-testing)
- [Math (Calculus)](#math-calculus)
- [Software Architecture](#software-architecture)
- [Theory](#theory)
- [Software Engineering](#software-engineering)
- [Math (Probability)](#math-probability)
- [Computer Architecture](#computer-architecture)
- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Computer Networks](#computer-networks)
- [Databases](#databases)
- [Cloud Computing](#cloud-computing)
- [Math (Linear Algebra)](#math-linear-algebra)
- [Cryptography](#cryptography)
- [Security](#security)
- [Compilers](#compilers)
- [Parallel Computing](#parallel-computing)
- [UX Design](#ux-design)
- [Computer Graphics](#computer-graphics)
- [Artificial Intelligence](#artificial-intelligence)
- [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
- [Natural Language Processing](#natural-language-processing)
- [Big Data](#big-data)
- [Data Mining](#data-mining)
- [Internet of Things](#internet-of-things)

---

### Introduction to Computer Science

### Math (Mathematical Thinking)

### Program Design

### Math (Discrete Math)

Name | Author | ISBN
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Discrete Mathematics with Applications(4th Edition)](http://www.amazon.com/Discrete-Mathematics-Applications-Susanna-Epp/dp/0495391328/) | Susanna S. Epp | 9780495391326

### Algorithms

Name | Author | ISBN
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Introduction to Algorithms(3rd Edition)](http://www.amazon.com/Introduction-Algorithms-3rd-MIT-Press/dp/0262033844/) | Thomas H. Cormen,  Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest, Clifford Stein | 9780262033848

### Programming Paradigms

### Software Testing

### Math (Calculus)

### Software Architecture

### Theory

### Software Engineering

### Math (Probability)

### Computer Architecture

### Operating Systems

Name | Author | ISBN
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Modern Operating Systems(4th Edition)](http://www.amazon.com/Modern-Operating-Systems-Andrew-Tanenbaum/dp/013359162X/) | Andrew S. Tanenbaum, Herbert Bos | 9780133591620

### Computer Networks

Name | Author | ISBN
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach (6th Edition)](http://www.chegg.com/textbooks/computer-networking-6th-edition-9780132856201-0132856204) | James F Kurose, Keith W Ross | 9780132856201
[Computer Networks (5th Edition)](http://www.amazon.com/Computer-Networks-5th-Andrew-Tanenbaum/dp/0132126958/) | Andrew S. Tanenbaum, David J. Wetherall| 9780132126953

### Databases

### Cloud Computing

### Math (Linear Algebra)

### Cryptography

### Security

### Compilers

Name | Author | ISBN
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Compilers: Principles, Techniques, and Tools (2nd Edition)](http://www.amazon.com/Compilers-Principles-Techniques-Tools-2nd/dp/0321486811/) | Alfred V. Aho, Monica S. Lam, Ravi Sethi,  Jeffrey D. Ullman | 9780321486813

### Parallel Computing

### UX Design

### Computer Graphics

### Artificial Intelligence

### Machine Learning

### Natural Language Processing

### Big Data

### Data Mining

### Internet of Things

Commit message:

Add John Guttag textbook to paid books in extras

extras/paid-books.md, after:

# Computer Science - Extra Resources

## Paid Books

- [Introduction to Computer Science](#introduction-to-computer-science)
- [Math (Mathematical Thinking)](#math-mathematical-thinking)
- [Program Design](#program-design)
- [Math (Discrete Math)](#math-discrete-math)
- [Algorithms](#algorithms)
- [Programming Paradigms](#programming-paradigms)
- [Software Testing](#software-testing)
- [Math (Calculus)](#math-calculus)
- [Software Architecture](#software-architecture)
- [Theory](#theory)
- [Software Engineering](#software-engineering)
- [Math (Probability)](#math-probability)
- [Computer Architecture](#computer-architecture)
- [Operating Systems](#operating-systems)
- [Computer Networks](#computer-networks)
- [Databases](#databases)
- [Cloud Computing](#cloud-computing)
- [Math (Linear Algebra)](#math-linear-algebra)
- [Cryptography](#cryptography)
- [Security](#security)
- [Compilers](#compilers)
- [Parallel Computing](#parallel-computing)
- [UX Design](#ux-design)
- [Computer Graphics](#computer-graphics)
- [Artificial Intelligence](#artificial-intelligence)
- [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
- [Natural Language Processing](#natural-language-processing)
- [Big Data](#big-data)
- [Data Mining](#data-mining)
- [Internet of Things](#internet-of-things)

---

### Introduction to Computer Science

Name | Author | ISBN
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Introduction to Computation and Programming Using Python](https://www.amazon.com/Introduction-Computation-Programming-Using-Python/dp/0262525003/) | John V. Guttag | 978-0262525008

### Math (Mathematical Thinking)

### Program Design

### Math (Discrete Math)

Name | Author | ISBN
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Discrete Mathematics with Applications(4th Edition)](http://www.amazon.com/Discrete-Mathematics-Applications-Susanna-Epp/dp/0495391328/) | Susanna S. Epp | 9780495391326

### Algorithms

Name | Author | ISBN
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Introduction to Algorithms(3rd Edition)](http://www.amazon.com/Introduction-Algorithms-3rd-MIT-Press/dp/0262033844/) | Thomas H. Cormen,  Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest, Clifford Stein | 9780262033848

### Programming Paradigms

### Software Testing

### Math (Calculus)

### Software Architecture

### Theory

### Software Engineering

### Math (Probability)

### Computer Architecture

### Operating Systems

Name | Author | ISBN
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Modern Operating Systems(4th Edition)](http://www.amazon.com/Modern-Operating-Systems-Andrew-Tanenbaum/dp/013359162X/) | Andrew S. Tanenbaum, Herbert Bos | 9780133591620

### Computer Networks

Name | Author | ISBN
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach (6th Edition)](http://www.chegg.com/textbooks/computer-networking-6th-edition-9780132856201-0132856204) | James F Kurose, Keith W Ross | 9780132856201
[Computer Networks (5th Edition)](http://www.amazon.com/Computer-Networks-5th-Andrew-Tanenbaum/dp/0132126958/) | Andrew S. Tanenbaum, David J. Wetherall| 9780132126953

### Databases

### Cloud Computing

### Math (Linear Algebra)

### Cryptography

### Security

### Compilers

Name | Author | ISBN
:-- | :--: | :--:
[Compilers: Principles, Techniques, and Tools (2nd Edition)](http://www.amazon.com/Compilers-Principles-Techniques-Tools-2nd/dp/0321486811/) | Alfred V. Aho, Monica S. Lam, Ravi Sethi,  Jeffrey D. Ullman | 9780321486813

### Parallel Computing

### UX Design

### Computer Graphics

### Artificial Intelligence

### Machine Learning

### Natural Language Processing

### Big Data

### Data Mining

### Internet of Things
